---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Questioning Your Questions"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-09-011
published: true
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Stack Overflow
  - Smart Questions
---

  Eric Raymond, a famous American software developer, wrote a guide to asking “smart” questions in the early 2000s and has since made it the go-to guide when crafting a coding question for any software development forum. In this guide, Raymond lists the multitude of qualities that create a good question, but the majority of these qualities can be summed up into five general attributes. The question should be specific, clear, contain sufficient information about your problem, asked with the proper etiquette, and should be concise. On the famous software discussion page, Stack Overflow, I have found a question that follows these guidelines exactly and a question that is the antithesis of asking questions the smart way. As you can see, one question, which can be found here, involves much more complicated software than the other, which can be found here, but is easier to understand because the question follows the guidelines. Thus, the smart question was answered and upvoted thousands of times while the other was not answered and downvoted.

## The Smart Question
	
  The smart question is titled “Why is processing a sorted array faster than processing an unsorted array?”. With very minimal knowledge of computer science, you can understand the entirety of the question just from the title. As Raymond’s guide states when talking about good headers, “a hacker who sees the result can immediately understand what it is that you are having a problem with and the problem you are having, at a glance.” The body of the question provides two examples, one in C++ and the other in Java, of filling an array with random numbers and then conducting a linear search through the array 1000 times to time the process. The poster states that when they sorted the array before processing it, the process time was significantly decreased in both the cases of C++ and Java. The poster then stated what they had already tried and their best guesses. This question is clear and concise because it asks the question in as minimal words as someone could while being easily readable. There are no grammar mistakes and the question is structured with indentations and newlines. According to Raymond, “we've found by experience that people who are careless and sloppy writers are usually also careless and sloppy at thinking and coding (often enough to bet on, anyway).” The question is also specific and contains sufficient information about the problem. The poster added two examples of their problem in text with code that follows a standard readable format and the entire question does not span more than a page. Lastly, the poster asked the question with proper etiquette. The question was restated at the end of the explanation in a way that invites an answer instead of demanding a response. This question is now the highest upvoted question on stack overflow because it strictly adhered to Raymond’s guidelines. The question was answered 25 times.

## The Stupid Question
 
  The stupid question is titled “Looking for a State timeline chart from javascript code”. The title is not correctly capitalized, is not a question, and its meaning is up to interpretation. The question body consists of four real sentences and there is no example code given. The poster specifies that they are attempting to build a state timeline chart in javascript from an array of values. The post is not specific or clear because we do not know what values are in the array, what states he would like to have in his timeline, and what he has already tried. If the poster included his source code in the question, this would give a lot of needed context. Raymond rightly says in his guidelines that “giving hackers the ability to reproduce the problem in a controlled environment is especially important…” if you want your question answered. Even though there are only five total sentences in the post, the post is not concise. The post’s first sentence is “I am interested in finding some kind of way of building a code for making a State timeline chart in javascript.. I have like an array of data…”. This is not concise sentence writing. Additionally, there are a total of seven different grammatical and spelling mistakes over four sentences, and the final sentence of the post is “thanks alot”. This is not proper etiquette and makes the post much more difficult and time consuming to read. The post was closed the same day it was posted because it did not follow guidelines. The post received zero answers and was downvoted four times. 
  
  As we can see from these two posts, there is in fact a smart and stupid way of asking questions. Ironically, the smart question involves material that is more complicated but is actually easier to understand because it is so well written. The smart question was framed in a way that made it feel like the poster was generally curious about the subject and had put in the work before asking the question. This invited the best of experts to answer the question. It turns out that the reason that a sorted array is faster to process is because branch predictions inside of the CPU can easily reproduce processing an array that is sorted due to its consistency. Although the stupid question was not answered, one could simply look up “javascript charts” on the internet and find a multitude of options available. At the end of the day, it takes five minutes of effort to format a question correctly and you will find that smart questions attract smart answers. 
